And so the cool part, you can also do some
interesting things like give yourself
custom hooks as well that are wrapped
around this, you don't actually have
to pull in dispatch either, and that'll
all theoretically work as expected.
But we do have to do a little
bit of what I think is fair to
define as shenanigans in order
to get the context API to work.
Now again, for those of you who
agree with me in the chat and
in the room, that forcing it is not great,
but maybe acceptable.
We will look at another option and
the other way.
But what I would challenge you to
do is we have another example,
the packing lists app.
They'll show you real quick.
Where you're gonna try it out.
The twist on the theme this time is
that it's just gonna use, use state.
So same idea, but instead of dispatch,
we're gonna use state.
The nice part is it does save you from
having to do that React at dispatch.
React.setstate action and then the type,
because you're just gonna pass.
But you'll have to do it
in the context once, but
then you'll kind of have it in place.
The only thing that I need to call out is
that there is a with TypeScript branch
that you have to use.
This is an application that was in case we
felt like pointing out from JavaScript to
TypeScript also existed, but there is
one with TypeScript totally set up.
So if you look in here,
I did some of the setup already,
just simply cuz no one needs to watch
me retype the same stuff I just typed.
So I've got the createContext,
it started out with a null I've got
the provider set up, just triple checking.
It is wrapped around the index component.
Most of the non-type script
parts are set up for us.
So now, we can kind of do the other piece,
which is I can pull in all of these
helper methods that I'll need as well,
and we can say that this
will start out as initial or
getinitial state initial items.
Cool, and so like that is,
you know, the initial part.
None of this is hooked up to anything and
still no getting passed through and
all those things but
like the non TypeScript parts of this,
other than the fact that they use state
for having an array that we saw earlier,
but actually this returns an item array.
So like if you had a function that always
promise that it was gonna return not
promises a tricky word not return
a promise that has like, but
then TypeScript would then cast
it in just as we saw before.
But just to be explicit, here it is.
So that's the context of that
we just saw a second ago.
Let's pull in the state management pieces
from application, because we're going
to move it in here that's already
in place, but we'll grab it.
And these are all the things that
we're gonna pull out as well.
And I'm not gonna save the file yet
because it's gonna start crashing stuff,
but we can pull it in to context TSX.
And just make it available, so we can stop
the prop drilling and paste it all in.
Now there is a little surprise in there.
You're staring closely enough and
you can see it.
If not,
I will make it obvious to you in a moment.
But we have this in place and so
we've got all these features.
So now what we really want to
do is be able to kind of like
pass those through all of the context.
So really before when we were just
using the reducer use, reducer.
There's just one dispatch right because
like we can't just batch all sorts
of different actions, we need to have
like some kind of method for each one.
We need some way of like
bundling these all together
in order to thread them
through the context API.
So we can say in this case we'll say like
const value because that's gonna be we
pass into the provider down there.
And we'll say that this is like items,
and it's our unpacked items.
Packed items, and we've got
was it add, update, remove and
then mark all as unpacked, right?
We'll take a look at the second.
To mark all is unpacked, so
that'll be everything bundled
together real nicely, and
we can pass it in to here.
This is where the yelling starts, because
it's like, yo, you told me value is null.
Yeah, that's true.
So here we'll say, but as what?
Before I could just say dispatch with
the action types, here I can't write.
This is one of the reasons like I like
use reducer a lot, especially because
the number of things I'm doing like
this is a case where again like.
I might have reached already wanted
to show you both because like,
sometimes you fight the army, you fight
the battle, the army you have, right?
One of things I could do is literally
again to kind of hit that running theme
rather than wreck my head and
sit there and try to like get it right and
watch my code.
Now, compile the answer a lot of times.
It's just stealing it from your own code,
right?
Let typescript give you the answer, so
that you can give TypeScript
the answers somewhere else.
So we can grab this, and
I can make this his own type, right?
I can call it.
Now we have this, and
we can see that like this is
verify that those are both the same thing,
right?
Cool because we don't get a compiler.
This is how we know that
they are both valid, and
they are simpatico with each other.
So that all kind of works.
It's great like there
are fun things that you,
if these were in the same scope,
you could do stuff like,
I don't even know if you can write
a type inside of a, it's smaller shape.
Yeah, I'm pretty sure, so
I'm getting yelled at, but
I'll show you what this looks like
if it was up and out of there.
You can say type.
Right now, we'll figure out,
type of value.
And you can see that that is a way to
figure out the type based on an object.
This is a regular old JavaScript value,
it has determined the type,
and it's allowing me to then make
a type on the fly dynamically.
That said, we still have that closure
scope problem that we had before, so,
both work.
I use this a lot
especially with arrays for
statuses we have a bunch of labels
of running, paused, terminated.
I want those to be types, so I can make
those union types like you saw with
the actions, but I also need them
as values that I iterate over.
So a lot of times I'll do
like loading, error,
success for whatever it is.
I do as const which means this is
an array that's never gonna change.
It's kind of like when we saw number,
number, number.
This is not an array
that you can push onto or
pop off of this is a static array and
then if you did.
You would get this full array,
but then if you did.
That's the key of type of status, yeah.
This will give you the full array of them
that you can kind of like pick one of in
this case and then if you said for
a raise the keys or numbers, think I got.
See, got a union type based
out of that array, right?
So this is saying like go through all
the keys which are numbers 123 gives
you a status and so now I can like
set them very clearly based on this.
So if you have a value that you need to
use in JavaScript, and then also a type,
you can kind of dynamically
derive the type from the value.
It is not just a,
if you cast your types and
values, you can also pull
types out of values as well.
Cool, but we were gonna do the copy-paste
method for now because like,
again, we want that in
the top level scope.
And this also, I think is a little
bit more sane for our purposes.
So pass it in, we say that listen,
this is going to be everything I promise
I'm going to do it, two lines now.
And again, we will look at another
solution to this in a second.
But we have it in place because
like honestly, this one does work,
like when I show you the other one
you might still choose this one,
that's why I'm like keeping it for
a while.
So we've got that like in place, it's
getting passed through, everything seems
mostly good applications angry me because
I literally removed all these functions.
So like we've got to still have to
do that refactor, absolutely, but
we will do it with the aid
of TypeScript in this case.
So could I?
This was just getting items and
showing the count.
This one has one function, could I
thread them through with use dispatch?
I totally could.
You can later.
I'm gonna do the ones that have
multi depths of layers of items.
Item list to the individual item
to actually showing that to having
the actions on the right button.
So I'm going to do the two item list.
These aren't really worth it, but
I can pull them in here,
so we'll say use context.
Did I export everything.
Items context here I'm gonna grab
just items add, and what's the other?
Just mark it all is unpacked.
Cool, so you can see these are happy.
I don't need to pass these
props through anymore, right?
Because I can pull them when I need them.
Let's actually pass these in too.
That way,
I can just reuse the same component.
Cool.
Still angry with me cuz it was
expecting update and remove.
So we can say like, hey, wait, what if
you just didn't worry about this anymore?
No, we don't have to pass him in here.
And again,
it's kind of just following the errors.
It's a little cathartic at times.
Versus like, I don't have enough test,
let me keep checking and so on and so
forth, right?
And kind of just follow
the compile errors through.
I don't need them here, and
keep that because we're gonna use that
functionality and
second they don't need to be in the type.
So now here we can do useContext,
Let's update and remove.
Awesome, and if we go fire up the app,
And again, other than when I'm dealing
with third party libraries where I forget
that they need a certain string,
will I open a pull request saying that,
it there's no hashtag at the beginning.
Maybe you try that first
before you blow up.
I might later.
Just for glory and or my own
misunderstanding of closure scope for
a hot minute there.
Generally speaking, I can feel confident
just in my editor without the need to,
like, jump back and forth.
Should you have tests?
Absolutely, you should have tests.
Do you need as many for
all these educations?
I was feeling comfortable, and
a lot of times while I'm using TypeScript,
I feel comfortable just
doing the refactor.
So now, we can see that we can update one,
we can remove it.
So to stream with me.
There it is at the bottom.
Cool, everything works.
I can check boxes.
I can edit a name.
Awesome.